This is the build description guide that explains the build process for all FullScreenShenanigans projects.
It contains descriptions of the Gulp tasks used for building.

### Table of Contents

1. [gulp-shenanigans](#gulp-shenanigans)
2. [Tasks](#gulp-tasks)

## gulp-shenanigans

Build tasks for FullScreenShenanigans projects are loaded by the [gulp-shenanigans](https://github.com/FullScreenShenanigans/gulp-shenanigans/) project.
This allows the tasks to be defined once across the two dozen projects, and updates brought in via `npm update`.

### `shenanigans.json`

gulp-shenangigans is configured a project's `shenanigans.json`.
The settings match the `IProjectSchema` interface in gulp-shenanigans' [src/definitions.ts](https://github.com/FullScreenShenanigans/gulp-shenanigans/blob/master/src/definitions.ts).


## Tasks

The `default` task runs the following task groups in order.

### `clean`

`clean` deletes any existing generated files from the file system.

### `src`

* `src:tsc`
* `src:tslint`
* *`web:scss`*
* *`web:scssLint`*

`src` runs TSLint on source `.ts` files and compiles them in-place using TypeScript to `.js` files.

Projects that include the `web` task group also lints and compiles run SCSS files in-place.

### `lib`

* `lib:typespace`
* `lib:dist`
* *`web:copy`*
* *`web:cssMin`*
* *`web:processHtml`*
* *`web:uglify`*

`lib` generates distribution-ready outputs from files generated by `src`.
Typespace transforms the source `.ts` files into a single `.ts`, which is then compiled into output `.js` in the `lib` directory.

Projects that include the `web` task group also process `.html` files, then copy those files and other web resources to `lib`.

### `test`

* `test:setupHtml`
* `test:setupUtilities`
* `test:setupScripts`
* `test:run`
* `test:takedown`

`test` generates test runners and uses them to run tests.

Projects will first have an `test/index.html` generated from the `index.mustache` in gulp-shenanigans and a `MochaLoader.ts` copied into their `test` directory.
Test `.ts` files are then compiled and run.
